Now it's time to add the product details to the quotation document.
In this process, you will be using most of these API classes and their methods.
The XWPFTable class has some significant methods like createRow, addRow,
addNewCol, then getRow,
setTableAlignment, and setWidth. The XWPFTableRow class has
these significant methods like addNewTableCell,
createCell, and getCell. How these methods work is
somewhat confusing to the users.
So let me show you how they behave when using code. When you
call the createTable method on a Word document,
it creates an empty table with one row and one column
added by default that looks like this.
You can access this default row by calling the getRow method, passing in 0
as the index and access the default cell in that row,
calling the getCell method, passing in 0 as the index. Call
addNewTableCell or createCell methods on an existing table row
to add a new table cell to that row.
Call createRow method on a table that has columns already added on
it, and it will create a new row with as many cells as the number
of columns defined in that moment.
The addRow method adds a new row on an existing table when a
row is passed in as a XWPFTableRow object.
Then the addNewCol method,
when called on an existing table, adds a new column
for each row in the table like this.
In addition,
the XWPFTableCell class has some important methods like setText,
setWidth, and a collection of methods to work with paragraphs inside of a
table cell like these. We will see the usages of some of these. To have a
quick look at the basic steps involved,
call the createTable method of the document to create a table in the document.
The createTable method creates an empty table with one row and
one column already added to it by default. You can align the
table on the document like this.
The table width can be set like this. To access the very first row,
which was created by default at the time of creating the empty
table, call the getRow method on the table, passing 0 as the index.
To access the very first cell in the row,
which was created by default,
call the getCell method on the row, passing in the index 0. To set
text directly in the cell, call the setText method on the cell, and
you can set the cell width like this.
You can add a paragraph inside a cell like this and add a
text run and place text in it so that you will be able to do
some formatting to the cell text.
If you want to add more cells in the first row,
you can call the addNewTableCell method on the row. And to add more rows in the table, you can call createRow method on the table.